# mycotools databases - mycoDB
## BETA

[MycoTools](https://gitlab.com/xonq/mycotools/-/blob/master/mycotools/README.md) and the MycoDB are designed for automated curation / maintenance of fungal genomic data from NCBI and JGI and modular downstream analysis of these data. 

mycotools databases are flat, tab delimitted reference files that feauture: proteome, genome, & gene coordinate files; automatic downloads and setup; automated updates; phylogenetic trees from conserved fungal orthogroups; chronograms; flagged contaminant genomes; systematic organism "ome" identifiers (first 3 letters of genus, first 3 of species, unique accession number); uniform gene coordinate `gff3` files with `Alias` attribute referencing the unique identifier; curated, uniform proteome headers; taxonomy; publication data; and other relevant metadata. Downstream, my scripts then modularly interface to introduce organisms into an analysis. Via database tools and/or basic `bash` commands one can `abstractDB.py` a database based on the taxonomy, publication information, or organisms relevant for their analysis in one line. Alternatively, one can simply use the default master database to conduct analyses considering all of published Fungi! This modularity is the reason why I created mycotools.

### USE
I cultivate a master database from all NCBI and JGI genomes through these scripts. I then construct trees from conserved orthologs throughout Fungi and use these data to determine which "fungi" are not actually fungi - a species phylogeny will be uploaded to the repository. From here, I create a list of "forbidden" genome codes and taxonomy IDs that are removed from the master database and will be flagged in this git page. You install my [scripts](https://gitlab.com/xonq/mycotools_scripts/) and run `updateDB.py --init` to initialize the database install based on my reference database. Then get going! All you have to do to update the database is simply run `updateDB.py -y` to update whenever available. The goal is to recreate the trees each year and have a "stable" branch that only includes organisms evaluated through the trees, while also having an "unstable" branch that includes tree-evaluated organisms and the most recent accessions that have not been incorporated into a tree.
